An operating system is an interface between the user and the hardware components. It performs different tasks. An operating system provides GUI or CLI 
for the user to perform tasks.
 Some operating systems only provide CLI while others provide both GUI and CLI. A GUI consists of controls or widgets to interact with the computer.
 On the other hand, when using the CLI, the user should enter commands to perform the tasks. Overall, GUI is more user-friendly,
 but the execution speed is higher in CLI.
Python has a lot of GUI libraries/Some of the most important GUI libraries in oython are:
Kivy
QT
wxPython and Tkinter
Among all these Tkinter is the most poupular and most used libraray for  creating GUI applications.Tkinter provides an easy way to create gui apps
It gives us an 
object-oriented interface to the Tk GUI Toolkit


The steps involved to create a tkinter app are:

1.import tkinter module.we need not install tkinter moudule again as it comes with python by default
2.Create a main window.it is in this window we perofim operations,displaying visulas and everything.
3.adding widgets to the main window
4.enter the main event loop.an event loop is telling the code to diplay the window until he manually closes that winodw


as seen this code we are importing the tkinter module and then defining a window
we are then actually setting the geometry of the window as 500 pxX 300 px.
ans we are also setting the maxsize and min size of the window same so that we cannot extend or minimise the window.Here we are also defining a title to the main window as PAint application


widgets are the elements in GUi that enables us to display/interact with the os
these are some of the widgets suppored by tkinter are label,button,checbox,canvas,frames.
these widgets are the reason why the tkinter is so popular



The widgets which we have used in our project are labes,buttons,frames,Scale,canvas etc



Label widget is used to display information or output to the user.
Button widget is similar to label and in the text portion we write what the widget has to display
we have a grid function to place the buttons on the main window.since the row is 0 and column is 0 it places it in the start
we can also change the fg and bg of a button using fg and bg parametres.

but when we click on a buttton something should happen right.for this we have a click event.we use command as a parameter while
 declaring a button.This command has the func name and it dircts to that function whenevr it is clicked and the function performs some operations



we can add images to the buttons using Photoimage button

we tkinter widgets have some geometric measurments.with the help of this geometric measurments we add frames,widgets to the main window
p
g
pla

pack is used to orgainzse the widgets in a partivular block.that means it takes the whole width

gid uses the matrix row and matrix columns to organise the widgets

place is used to organise the widgets accorginf to the cooradinate axis




frame class is a used to create divisons in the main window.It is just taken as a container.

Calling functions whenever an event ocuurs is called as a binding functions.

tkinter provides canvas widget to draw anything.On the top of this widget we can gdraw anthing like lines,circles.
Just like button widget we have canvas widget 
where we some parameters like root,bg colour and height and wdith.


The Tkinter module has a package in it named colorchooser. This package of the Tkinter module helps in developing the
 color chooser dialog box. This package has a function named askcolor() that plays a major role.
 As soon as the function is called, it makes the color chooser dialogue box pop up.
 The function returns the hexadecimal code of the color selected by the user.                                                                                                            


















